docs/design-notes.md, before:

# Design Notes

Aiming to:

* Exploit `Span<T>` and `Range`, `stackalloc` etc to avoid alloc'ing intermediate strings
* Don't alloc the values of structures the caller doesn't touch (ie no `private List<string> \_fields` etc)
* Be fully AoT Compatible if at all possible (Source Generators ftw)
* Comply with the Spec (no hacks!)
* Minimal actual spec reading on our side (ie no strongly typed segments)
* Provide spec compliant helpers for things like date time parsing, escape sequences etc


## Versioning
- This library is versioned using [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).
- Major version number aligns with the version of .Net it targets (eg V9 for .Net 9, V10 for .Net 10 etc).
- Support for previous versions of .Net effectively terminates when the next major release (targeting the next .Net release) is made.
  - Security patches may be made to the previous major version, but no new features will be added.
- There is _no_ support for versions of .Net that MS also doesn't support.  
  - If you're stuck using an old unsupported version of .Net you have my condolences, but just don't take any upgrades... clearly frequent upgrades aren't your forte anyway!

 
## Indexing Questions

To 0-index, 1-index or both??  General Principal: mirror the spec!

### Segments
- Segments are generally indexed by name (`PID` etc) rather than numerical index.
- Querying repeated segments (via `OBX(2)` etc) are effectively 1-indexed... if you queried `NK1(1)` you'd get the same segment as just `NK1`.
  - This reflects the `Set Id` etc in the specs
- TODO: Message Groups etc are a complexity I haven't thought about yet

### Fields
- Fields in a segment are 0 indexed, but the 0'th field is the segment name, so the first field of a segment is `1`.  This aligns with the sequence number of the field in the spec.

- Repeats are 0 indexed, so requesting `PID.3(0)` returns the same result as `PID.3`.
  - All fields effectively have a single (default) repeat.

- Components within a repeat are 1 indexed for back-compat with Hl7V2
  - TODO: Should they be??

Commit message:

feat: Reduced allocs, improved back-compat with Hl7V2

docs/design-notes.md, after:

# Design Notes

Aiming to:

* Exploit `Span<T>` and `Range`, `stackalloc` etc to avoid alloc'ing intermediate strings
* Don't alloc the values of structures the caller doesn't touch (ie no `private List<string> \_fields` etc)
* Be fully AoT Compatible if at all possible (Source Generators ftw)
* Comply with the Spec (no hacks!)
* Minimal actual spec reading on our side (ie no strongly typed segments)
* Provide spec compliant helpers for things like date time parsing, escape sequences etc


## Versioning
- This library is versioned using [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).
- Major version number aligns with the version of .Net it targets (eg V9 for .Net 9, V10 for .Net 10 etc).
- Support for previous versions of .Net effectively terminates when the next major release (targeting the next .Net release) is made.
  - Security patches may be made to the previous major version, but no new features will be added.
- There is _no_ support for versions of .Net that MS also doesn't support.  
  - If you're stuck using an old unsupported version of .Net you have my condolences, but just don't take any upgrades... clearly frequent upgrades aren't your forte anyway!

 
## Indexing Questions

To 0-index, 1-index or both??  General Principal: mirror the spec!

### Segments
- Segments are generally indexed by name (`PID` etc) rather than numerical index.
- Querying repeated segments (via `OBX(2)` etc) are effectively 1-indexed... if you queried `NK1(1)` you'd get the same segment as just `NK1`.
  - This reflects the `Set Id` etc in the specs
- TODO: Message Groups etc are a complexity I haven't thought about yet

### Fields
- Fields in a segment are 0 indexed, but the 0'th field is the segment name, so the first field of a segment is `1`.  This aligns with the sequence number of the field in the spec.

- Repeats are 1-indexed, for back-compat with Hl7V2

- Components within a repeat are 1 indexed for back-compat with Hl7V2
  - TODO: Should they be??
